(extended-support)=

# Extended support

NRIS provides resources, such as computers, networks, storage systems and a
software stack that is adapted to the current research being performed in
Norway. This provides the community with a valuable resource. 

However, what we believe is even more valuable is the fact that you as a user
have easy access to a broad selection of competences that can be utilized to
improve the quality, reproducibility and efficiency of your current flow of
work. Our staff are at the forefront of digital competence and can assist you
in reaching post state-of-the-art and address that competitive edge you want to
reach or keep. We also possess domain competence in key fields and can not only
provide digital competence, but also adapt this to the challenge you are
having. Together we can thus ensure that this is addressed in the most
relevant, efficient and result oriented way.

Even though our digital competence is at the forefront, that does not mean we
only provide assistance and appreciate complex state-of-the-art challenges. On
the contrary, we would really like to help you and your activity, regardless
where you are coming from. In fact, sometimes nothing feels better than seeing
you and your flow or work evolve after getting a little help in the start.

Whether that challenge is small, large, complex or trivial does not matter,
please `reach out <mailto:support@nris.no>`_ and we will find a common ground
for collaboration. Using that as an entry point we can figure out together how,
who and what kind of competences we should involve to address the challenge.
And for the most part this is free of charge.

A few examples of what we can offer you:

- Figure out what kind of competence you and your team might be lacking and put
  you in contact with sources of such competences and/or provide training and
  competence transfer.

- Introduce you and your team to modern practices with respect to code
  development, maintenance and support.

- Improving the digital and/or scientific quality of your code base.

- Contribute to porting your code base to be ready for high-performance compute facilities.

- Contribute to porting your code base to be ready for utilization of GPU resources.

- Optimizing your code to run more efficient on high-performance compute
  facilities, including the utilization of GPUs, or the combinations of CPUs
  and GPUs.

- Assist in developing and facilitating for more automation, reproducibility
  and high-throughput possibilities in your flow of work. For instance
  developing workflows that ensures data provenance.

- Competence and insight that sits close to the domain topic of interest.
  Sometimes it is not enough to have deep digital competence to address a
  challenge, but one also needs overview of the role and character of this
  challenge for your flow of work. Typically, optimizing a specific solver
  might incur unwanted effects on other parts of the program which is hard to
  understand unless you also understand what the solvers are actually doing.

If you are interested in reading more about our specific stimuli frameworks
please take a look at {ref}`extended-support-eus`, {ref}`extended-support-aus`,
{ref}`extended-support-gpu` and {ref}`extended-support-ncc`.
We encourage you to contact us first to spare you the acronyms and letting us
do the work of coordinating how to facilitate further progress on your
challenge.

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

extended_support/eus.md
extended_support/aus.md
extended_support/gpu.md
extended_support/ncc.md
```
